---
title: Degrees, careers, and some thoughts.
publish_date: 2017-05-18
---

A lot of years ago, we used to live in a world where the career was mainly valuable by the university where we graduated, by the number of postgraduate certificates we had or by the type of MBA that we were able to obtain, those ones and, of course, our work experience too. Today this world has changed a lot, now we have many professionals who have not even registered to the university and that group of people continues to grow exponentially and this is the topic that I would like to talk to you about on this occasion.
Before we keep going, I would like to say that this is my first personal essay and the first one since I graduated from high school, and also my first time writing readable-content in English. Also, I want you to know that this is an idea that I want to share with the goal of promoting this difference that I am going to explain between an academic career and a professional one and also to know new opinions about this topic that attracts me so much to discuss.

The first thing you may be thinking right now is "this guy probably hates University", that's partially wrong. Why did I say "partially"? That's because I did use to hate University, I started my first days of college, 2 years ago at National Technologic University (Universidad Tecnólogica Nacional or UTN for short, remember that I'm from Argentina!) studying Information Systems Engineering. UTN is a very prestigious university in Buenos Aires, some can say the most one, facing the top engineering schools in Argentina with UBA or ITBA. I was waiting to start studying the thing that I love most to do for many years, while I was in high school.

When I started my first days at UTN I was loving all the stuff I was learning there, from "Chemistry" to "Systems and Organizations", all types of subjects. I was doing great, getting very good exam scores and very enthusiastic papers/essays. At the middle of my first year of university, I started my first job as a software developer at Connectis-ICT, a Software Factory company. In my country, and particularly at this career, it was very common for a student, to work and study at the same time, I was told since I choose this vocation in the middle of high school that in this career you learn working and practicing, the academic classes were very empty in that aspect. So I wanted to work for that reason. After a few months of being actually developing real productive enterprise software, I realize that I learn a lot more in those few weeks than the whole year of the university about the thing I wanted to do the rest of my life, developing software.

So that's when I started hating college, I started to get boring after the 5 minutes of any class, my days of paying real attention to classes were gone, I was always waiting to get home and quickly start to recover that "lost time" at the class, by learning new programming technologies, doing online modern courses and meeting online communities of software development. I started meeting a lot of people that drop out college and succeeded at their plans, entrepreneurship projects, and works (without mentioning Mark Zuckerberg and Steve Jobs's famous histories of course!). The idea of me leaving college was becoming more and more viable for me.

I left the university at the first semester (or "cuatrimestre" in my country) of 2016. The first weeks all was going great, I was able to really focus on my projects, planning of making money, while I was enjoying working on Connectis, going to a lot of meetups, meeting really interesting contacts, and going to international programming conferences like JSConf Uruguay 2016 (my first one!). Then I changed of job, from Connectis to my first remote one: Strands. This is a Barcelona based company that had a remote team here in Buenos Aires, the thing was that most of my coworkers were ~25 years old graduated information systems engineers (remember I just was 19 years old). Since I realize that my systems development knowledge was very equal to their ones I reconfirmed that my decisions about my studies were the best ones I could make.
A few months later (maybe 1 month before the 2nd college semester start) I really started to realize that the effort that my coworkers made to get their titles, weren't for the title itself, it was for all the contacts, people they knew and the university was a very good guide for introducing them on some new fields at the same industry (like mobile apps, IA, Big Data, etc.), not for the subjects only, it was for the people, the community of course. So that motivated me to return to college, but when I started the new semester I realize that thing changed, I wasn't only not enjoying the contents like the end of the first year, I was also seeing a lot of content that already learned on my own, so I didn't want to do 4 more years of college re-learning stuff that I know.

I finished the semester and starting to investigate all the options that were available for me to solve this problem in the summer before the boring classes start again next year. I found a new way: changing my career!
I move to a career called "Information Technology Management". It wasn't an Engineer Degree like the other one but at least it was a Bachelor's one, enough for me to do pastorate courses (another motivation for doing the colleague). This career is all about the management of people, resources, and technologies, all for building great business models and companies. I started loving classes and contents again, my actual scheme now is learning technologies at the day at working or in my personal projects, and looking at college how to correctly implement them to do money. Of course, I learn this staff more quickly talking with entrepreneurs and going to conference about entrepreneurship but is something right?

Isn't all happy experiences, the fact is that I had a lot of pressure for the decision of having or not a grade title. The thing is that after a lot of reflection (the whole summer, really, a lot!) I realize that I was doing my own process of vocational training, I don't care what happened to me in the past, if a fail a lot of exams, went through a lot of universities changing, a lot of careers studies or none of them, I just care on what I know, what are my skills, and what can I achieve with them. So from now on, I'm just going on a trip (a figurative one) where I just take the courses/careers/vacations/conferences/certifications that are going to best give me knowledge, without being limited by titles, papers, or signs. And also, I'm going to do my best to promote this way of thinking to all the people that are going through this same dilemma.

The conclusion of this story is that people should do their own ways and really don't focus on having a paper of an institution to prove to someone that you are good at what you do, I recently went to Silicon Valley for the first time, I learn that their people don't care about this paper, if you can do an app, they want you to show them that you can do it. And their people can succeed in their own ways, doing or not an academic career, but having the same opportunities for their professional. The software industry is making progress in this topic and I really hope that the other industries achieve the same goals. I really don't know if I'm going to actually finish college in the future, because that's not my goal, my goal is being the best version of me doing the thing that I most want to do, that is making entrepreneurship high-tech projects.
