---
title: Whatever you’re doing, do it with passion!
publish_date: 2021-12-19
---

I’m always wondering, why people sometimes prefer having boring jobs with big payouts (like a big salary, cool benefits, or even just a low demanding amount of work) instead of actually doing something they love.

I think I’m extremely lucky to be able to do something I both love and is well paid, but that’s not the only reason for my “success” (adding quotes here because is not how far I am in my career or how much money I’m making, but I feel successful just because every day I wake up excited for a new awesome day with a smile on my face).

Average job positions take ~8 hours per day of our time, sometimes more and sometimes less, that are roughly 40 hours per week, and considering that we also sleep ~8 hours, people will be doing almost HALF of their everyday time on their jobs, that’s almost half of your life. Are you really sure that these big salaries are well paid?

"You have to trust in something" said Steve Jobs in [this awesome speech he gave in Stanford](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UF8uR6Z6KLc). Whether is Karma, any religion, idea, or project. A single individual can accomplish great things if you have a great motivation to do it. You just have to find small things to start with, is all about that. Pluggy for example, an Open Banking company founded by me and some friends started as a few lines of code only meant to help me look at our finances in the same places (bank accounts, debts, investments, etc.).

The financial motivation behind everything is also really important, we live in a capitalist society. It's ok to look for saving money, investing, buying stuff, and keep the wheel spinning. Financials get solved over time when you're focused and trying to make your think bigger. I used to think that certain professions/vocations are not meant to make a lot of money, **FALSE statement**.

I've been lucky enough to travel a lot, and meet people that also travel all over the world. Have you ever heard that being a musician doesn't pay enough? I met people that move to tourism economy-driven companies all over the year, always moving from one summer season to another and getting paid thousands of dollars per month in tips by just playing the guitar by the beach or the street. Have you ever heard that gastronomic artists aren't getting paid enough? I've known barmen and chefs that travel to exotic countries to show the basic recipes from hometown, where other people can retrieve the value of that. When someone does something they love, people recognize the effort!

One example that made me start thinking differently is a math teacher I had when I was in college studying engineering. Back in that days, we have a lot of hard-maths subjects like Linear Algebra, Mathematical Analysis, Superior Maths, Logical Maths, etc. We had tons of books that we had to read, tons of exercises that we had to solve for practice, and exams everywhere. I was really struggling with this because I used to get bored really easily between all the theory, the board, the classroom. Until I met this teacher, a guy that was teaching outside the University, it was actually a postgraduate professor from another school but he actually made a solution to the problem I was having with another bunch of students. He created a private (but really cheap) intense course of maths where he specifically trains you to pass these exams (they were really aimed at the exams my School back then was giving to students). He was able to teach you about equations in a really funny, interesting way while he explain the usage of maths in real life like architecture, engineering, science, etc., and while he explained which of all the "theoretical" parts of the subjects were completely useless.

In Argentina a Math teacher (no matter if is from High School nor Colleague) earns a low salary, I don't know if that's because the market has more supply than demand, or because most of the best schools were public and free or any other reason, but for sure most of them needed to have more than one job to have decent incomes. At the time of writing a Math teacher from UTN which is one of the most prestigious engineering universities here has a salary of 60K ARS per month for having the equivalent ~6 hours of class per day during the week, converted to USD are rough ~300 USD. This amazing teacher created this intense course that charges something about 20 USD to every student for a class of 2 hours. In only 5 classes during a week (or two) he was able to explain and train people as same as the Univesity in a whole semester. It was not only effective but also accessible, I remember a batch of 30 students or so taking their classes, and only for one subject. Is really the only math teacher I met with a Ducati motorbike (WTF?).

The point here is that, whatever you do, if you do it passionately and creatively, money is going to come along!

Don't get me wrong, is not that if you just do whatever you like you are just going to be rich, that's just the small part of the deal. You've to really believe in yourself, work as hard as you can, and the most important part: prioritize every single piece of experience you can get of learning ANYTHING related to the thing you do. No matter if those are postgraduate courses, online free courses, networking events, meetups, or even just watching movies about that. If you don't move fast enough you're never getting outside the system to accomplish this. Startups are really just the highest expression of this sentiment. If you don't believe that you don't have the will to achieve this, try getting it! You can find awesome motivational speeches over the internet (that's the main thing that helped me) and keep making new relationships, like friends, partners, co-workers that feed you with this ambition. It's all about the context.

Feel free to talk to me with any of your ideas or thoughts regarding your projects or this post :) I'd love to have a coffee chat with you.
